and US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is in Turkey as part of a
diplomatic Dash across the Middle East
to try and find solutions to the Israel
Hamas conflict he's been meeting with
his Turkish counterpart hakan fidan in
Ankara the visit comes amid heated
relations between Israel and Turkey with
anura urging Israel to stop its attacks
on
Gaza and earlier blinkin made an
unexpected stop in Iraq he's warned
against other parties becoming embroiled
in the conflict
it was very important to send a very
clear message to anyone who might seek
to take advantage of the conflict in
Gaza to threaten our Personnel uh here
or anywhere else in the region don't do
it uh I made very clear that the attacks
the threats coming from militia that are
aligned with Iran are totally
unacceptable and we will take every
necessary step to protect our people
we're not looking for conflict with for
Iran we've made that very clear but
we'll do what's necessary uh to uh to
protect our our Personnel uh be they
military or
civilian so let's take a closer look at
blinken's trip to Turkey and speak to
our correspondent Dorian Jones joining
us from Istanbul adorian what do you
think we can expect from blinkin during
his meeting in the Turkish
Capital well I think blinkin will be
under a lot of pressure from his Turkish
counterpart hakam fidan to press for the
urgency of the ceasefire in the ongoing
assault on Gaza turkey has been very
much in the Forefront of demanding a
ceasefire but given the fact that in
despite these growing international
calls Israel is stepping up its assault
on the Gaza Strip the I think blink's
message will be that we have to contain
this conflict that's been the message
throughout his tour of the Middle East
importance of especially keeping Iran
out of any further escalation in the
conflict now turkey does have good
relations with the Iranian regime Iran's
foreign minister was here last week and
the Iranian president is expected to pay
a visit sometime this month so I think
blink will be pressing on the importance
of containing the conflict something he
will say that this is in turkey's
interest as well given the fact his
economy is would be expected to be
devastated by any major regional conf
configeration so I think that is the
main focus of talks will be to just to
maintain some kind of containment of the
conflict and Dorian what about relations
between turkey and Israel I mean they
had been patching up relations uh before
Israel's war on Hamas how are things
looking
now well I mean they're pretty rock
bottom and um yes you're right there was
this raoon effort uh before the the
outbreak of this latest conflict in the
Middle East in fact Turkish president
Reb T erdan met for the first time with
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in September then everyone was
saying that this was a positive sign
that there could be a new chapter in
relations but all of that has collapsed
now especially for following erdogan's
statement declaring Hamas is a
Liberation movement despite most of
turkey's Western allies designating as a
terrorist group that has saw Israel
pulling out its Ambassador and turkey
has retaliated over the weekend
withdrawing its Ambassador although it
has to be said erdan much of his
language against Israel is directed at
the Israeli Prime Minister himself
rather than Israel saying this is a man
we can no longer work with in fact he
said he's written off in the minds of
turkey but erdogan stressed the
importance of maintaining diplomatic
relations he said there isn't a severing
of relations and the fact that we need
to keep on talking and I think that's a
sign that turkey eyes itself playing
some kind of mediating role sometime in
the future indeed uh how important of a
role could turkey play in securing for
example the release of hostages being
held by
Hamas well according to Ankara Turkey
has been working very hard behind the
scenes to secure the release of the
hostages and in fact that's the front
person is turkey spy chief Chief Ibraham
cullin and according to erdan over the
weekend he said Colin has been in talks
with the Israeli count his Israeli
counterparts and also with the Hamas
leadership now turkey does have good
relations with Hamas over the past much
of its political leadership was here at
some point in Turkey so turkey says it
can possibly play some uh role in the
release of hostages although it has to
be said at the moment it doesn't appear
they've made really any progress Dorian
thank you very much for that DW's Dorian
Jones reporting from
Istanbul
and we can expand on this with Boris
Foreman a political science professor at
Bard College Berlin uh good to see you
there secretary blinkin has been
wrapping up what has been a pretty
grueling tour it's taken him from Israel
to Jordan uh to Iraq just to name a few
what do you think the main goal of this
shuttle diplomacy
was well I mean as you said it was a
grueling tour he met a lot of State
leaders um he I think has multiple goals
at once one one of them obviously was to
deescalate and try and contain uh the
the conflict itself uh for it not to
spread in the region the other goal was
for there to be a pause of fighting in
order for humanitarian Aid uh to be
delivered and we hear also that some of
the talks were about trying to think
about a possible postwar regime with
other state leaders now at least on one
of these um the US calls for a
humanitarian pause in Israel's
bombardment of Gaza um that that has not
been heated so far do you think
Lincoln's trip can be considered a
failure in that
regard difficult to tell I mean as we
just uh saw I mean there there are
multiple objectives some of them might
have been more successful some less some
of them we don't even know because a lot
is going on behind the scenes a lot of
the discussions are not public um well
the the conflict at least hasn't spread
beyond the borders of Israel and and the
pales inian regions yet but um yeah it's
a very difficult situation and uh I
guess we need more time to be able to to
Really assess if this trip was a success
or not look it's a
very limited success I would say Okay
limit limited success looking at
America's uh role in the region I mean
how how useful of a uh Power can they be
in trying to achieve these goals do you
think there's a certain message that the
US is trying to send uh just by the fact
that lincol is there uh on this shuttle
diplomacy yeah I mean I think this is an
important point if we zoom out from this
conflict immediately we are noticing
that the liberal order that has been
stable at least for the well let's say
last 20 years but we could even say
since the post World War II order uh
started in 45 uh and now is certainly
crumbling and we see many different
conflicts in many different places and I
think we have to situate this conflict
which of course has important an
internal Dynamics into this broader
context and so what we're seeing is an
attempt by the US also to signal that
it's still an important or the important
uh hegemonic uh state in the
International System but we are seeing
that it's losing some of its Cloud also
in the way that it can only partially
influence the Israeli government and we
are seeing a rebalancing of the
International System thank you so much
for sharing your insights that's uh
Boris Foreman from Bard College Berlin
really appreciate
it